doc: companion components: add generic user guide (#16175)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/config_and_build/configuring_app/core_components.rst

.. _core_components:

Using core firmware components
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |NCS| contains several standalone, predefined firmware components that you can reuse during the development of your application.
These components include applications that can be directly included in your project, samples that might require additional configuration, isolated modules created for specific development scenarios, external modules, and others.
They can be divided into the following categories:

> * Functionality images for a single core - These are applications that provide core functionality but are used as-is during application development possibly with small configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on its function a companion component image may run on the same core as the application, as in the case of :ref:`bootloader` and :ref:`ug_tfm` or on a separate core as in the case of :ref:`ipc_radio`.
```

>   Two examples of such application are :ref:`bootloader` and :ref:`ug_tfm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Companion core images - These include applications for companion cores, such as the :ref:`ipc_radio`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> These components are placed in different locations in the code structure because of their origin and purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For example, some of them are forks of external projects (:ref:`ug_tfm`), while others are specific to the |NCS| (:ref:`bootloader`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The following table lists the available components that you can reuse.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Component
     - Purpose
     - Supported platforms
     - Location
     - Integration instructions
   * - :ref:`ipc_radio`

>      - Companion core image that allows to use the radio peripheral from another core in a multicore device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Companion component that allows to use the radio peripheral from another core in a multicore device.
```

     - | :ref:`nRF54H20 DK <ug_nrf54h20_gs>`
       | :ref:`nRF5340 DK <ug_nrf5340>`
       | :ref:`Thingy:53 <ug_thingy53>`
     - :path:`applications/ipc_radio`
     - :ref:`Configuration <ipc_radio>`
   * - :ref:`MCUboot <mcuboot:mcuboot_wrapper>`

>      - External secure bootloader for 32-bit microcontrollers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Secure bootloader for 32-bit microcontrollers.
```

     - :ref:`All supported boards <app_boards_names>`
     - :file:`ncs/bootloader/mcuboot` (external module) and :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` (integration files)
     - :ref:`mcuboot:mcuboot_ncs`
   * - TF-M
     - Platform security architecture reference implementation aligning with PSA Certified guidelines, enabling chips, Real Time Operating Systems and devices to become PSA Certified.
     - | :ref:`nRF91x1 Series devices <ug_nrf91>`
       | :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l>`
       | :ref:`nRF54H20 DK <ug_nrf54h20_gs>`
       | :ref:`nRF5340 DK <ug_nrf5340>`
       | :ref:`Thingy:53 <ug_thingy53>`
     - :file:`ncs/modules/tee/tf-m`
     - :ref:`ug_tfm`
   * - :ref:`bootloader`

>      - Bootloader from Nordic Semiconductor, tailored for the :ref:`immutable bootloader architecture <immutable_bootloader>` of a secure boot chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Nordic Secure Immutable Bootloader, tailored for the :ref:`two stage<immutable_bootloader>` bootloader
```

Author: The name is already used in the ref title one line above, so I did not use it here.

     - Sample that allows the Secure Domain Firmware to access the external memory during the :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.
     - See :ref:`Sample requirements <suit_flash_companion>`
     - :file:`samples/suit/flash_companion`
     - See :ref:`Building and running section <suit_flash_companion>`
   * - :ref:`SUIT flash recovery image <suit_recovery>`
     - A minimal application that allows recovering the device firmware if the original firmware is damaged during the :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.
     - See :ref:`Sample requirements <suit_recovery>`
     - :file:`samples/suit/recovery`
     - See :ref:`Building and running section <suit_recovery>`

Adding core components to your application
******************************************

To add the desired core component to your application, refer to the component documentation.

You can add some of the components, such as :ref:`ipc_radio`, using :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild`.
Others require setting specific Kconfig options or building using specific images.

> Configuring core components

Reviewer: Remove the section
